---
layout: post
title:  "Jst2Go"
date:   2017-09-16 11:02:56 -0800
categories: business software

images:

  - url: /assets/images/jst2go.webp
    alt: Jst2Go
    title: Jst2Go
---
Small business courier service we developed in our college town.

Sometime summer of 2013.  I met a friend that wanted to ride his bike and deliver to people.  A simple idea: deliver for the places that don't deliver. <b>Get paid to ride your bike.</b> A lot of people talked about it, and we did it. 

I offered my help to build a website that could take an order and send a text-message to the courier because email wasn't fast enough.  I knew it was possible and it looked something like this. A form submit would activate the php like so.

{% highlight PHP startinline=true %}
<?php
mail( '1234567890@vtext.com', '', 'Please bring me Jamba Juice' );
?>
{% endhighlight %}

This method wasn't reliable enough due to texts not coming through in a reasonable amout of time. Eventually I learned about Twilio, and changed our system to work with their API.

{% highlight php%}
<?php
//send message using twilio
sendsms($message, $id); 
try {
  $response = twilio( $messageArr );
  if( $response == '' ){
    $error = "ERROR: No response from twilio queue";
    sendsms("TWILIO QUEUE SERVER DIDN'T RESPOND FOR: ",$id);
    error_log( $error );
  }
  error_log( $response );
}
catch (Exception $e){
 $error = "ERROR: " . $e;
 echo $error;
 error_log( $error ); 
}
?>
{% endhighlight %}

This code worked for us, until it didn't.  We ran into problems with couriers going in and out of dead zones and not receiving texts in a timely manner.  Something had to be improved for all our sanity. 

Here enters NodeJS..

{% highlight js %}
const express = require('express');
const app = express();

app.listen(3000, function () {
  console.log('Listening on port 3000!');
})
{% endhighlight %}

From this simple implementation of a server we built an app that gave the couriers a direct connection to the orders.  At first I thought we may run into the same problems, but the only way to be sure was to build it.  The app eventually found a home with React Native.

I pushed for SVG from the beginning because it gave us access to cross platforms with easy control of images.

It took a lot of hard work and tireless days to create something novel. Thank you to all the loyal customers and vendors that support Jst2Go.

{% include logos.html %}

I enjoyed making these vectors.  The heart of the menus. Carousel created with CSS.

{% highlight css %}

.logos{
    margin: 0 auto;
    width: 200px;
    height: 250px;
    transform-style: preserve-3d;
    transition: transform 1s;
    animation: spin 7s linear infinite;
    animation-play-state: paused;
}

.logos:hover {
    animation-play-state: running;
}

.logo {
    position: absolute;
    height: 200px;
}

@keyframes spin {
    from {
      transform: rotateY(0deg);
    }
  
    to {
        transform: rotateY(360deg);
    }
  }

{% endhighlight %}









